\section{Domain} % (fold)
\label{sub:Domain}

The domain of this data warehouse project is a daily newspaper, modeled after The Wall Street Journal (WSJ or the Journal), which started out as a printed newspaper and later introduced an online version. It produces a daily printed edition which is delivered to subscribed customers worldwide, sold at newspaper stands. The same content is also available on the website. The online edition is available to authenticated paid subscribers only.
% section Domain (end)

\section{Reasons for implementing Data Warehouse} % (fold)
\label{sub:Reasons for implementing Data Warehouse}
The Journal was founded in the 19th century, was active throughout the 20th century and in
1996 launched an online version. It has had multiple data sources (paper receipts, paper journals, text files, proprietary binary file databases and lately SQL databases) for the print newspaper over the years which have been integrated into one relational database. The online edition was designed separately and has its own databases. Both databases store customer data differently which makes it hard to aggregate statistics from both editions. Also, the database for the printed edition was built additively and contains data inconsistencies. The data warehouse would allow to combine personalized knowledge of the online edition readers with a lot of additional historical data from the printed edition.
% section Reasons for implementing Data Warehouse (end)

WSJ is the largest newspaper in the United States by circulation and has more than 400,000 online paid subscriptions. As such, the amount of data accumulated over the years is huge and was not designed to be stored for efficient analysis. As a result, it’s very inefficient to extract useful information as the business queries would take a long time when run on production databases.

\section{Business processes} % (fold)
\label{sub:Business processes}
We have identified three main business processes that such a newspaper would care about:
selling subscriptions, advertising, ensuring the quality of content.

The Journal mainly generates revenue from subscription sales. Since it is an international newspaper, It’s important to break down the sales by countries and regions. It’s also necessary for the company shareholders to visualize the growth over the years, taking into account the data from both editions.

In addition to subscriptions, the Journal places ads in the paper and generates revenue from
it. The company would like to know how much revenue it generates and compare it to the
subscription sales.

Lastly, the paper cares about the quality of its content. The Journal mainly covers
economics and business topics and financial news. Since it’s possible to track all user actions on the website, the data warehouse would allow testing of introduction of new content, identifying most popular articles, determine least successful authors, etc..
% section Business processes (end)

\section{Process granularity} % (fold)
\label{sub:Process granularity}
Since the main source of revenue is subscription sales, it should be possible to break them down by location and date. Highest granularity for location should be the city. Also, since it’s a global newspaper, countries should be grouped by regions, continents and arbitrary zones. It’s not important to know at exactly what time a subscription was purchased, but it is useful to see if it was on a holiday, so having the date as the highest granularity is sufficient. This also applies to ad sales revenue dates.

% section Process granularity (end)
